Source: https://www.vvitguntur.com/about/committees/statutory-committees/governing-body/secretary

Secretary
Search
Sri S.Badari Prasad
He along with Chairman plays a key role in defining the college vision and strategy. He brings his invaluable experience in managing people at various levels always ensuring a smooth and satisfactory relationship. He has experience in administering and maintaining the campus and designing and executing students activities to achieve the all round personality of the students. It is his deep-rooted academic interest that fuelled his endeavors in the field of education.
He is a Post Graduate from Vikram University Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh and has acquired his Masters degree in Geology and he has also done M.Sc. (Tech) in Mineral Exploration and obtained M Phil degree from the same University. He is young and energetic member of the management team and is actively managing the Educational Institution. With the full time dedication to the Management coupled with the guidance provided by learned professors, the college has achieved great heights in the field of technical education. He believes that our nation needs not just engineers and managers but virtuous men and women who can be professionals and entrepreneurs armed with Integrity and discipline and good citizens capable of utilizing their talents in building our Nation into a world power.
He has a considerable experience as an Exploration Geologist in Mineral Exploration Corporation and served at various places in Rajasthan, Bihar (now Jharkhand), Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. He resigned the job and took up Aptech Computer Education unit at Eluru which is still running successfully in the name of Sri Sai Software and Informatics.
He was the Project co-ordinator for 1000 schools computerization project in three districts, ICT@5000 and ICT@1300 schools Computerization project. Presently he is monitoring the day to day work of Vasireddy Venkatadri Institute of Technology.
Apart from regular activities he is also into agriculture at Sekuru Village and Chiluvuru Village with varied crops of Lemon, Sapota gardens, paddy cultivation and other seasonal crops.
Route
Address
and Phone
Vasireddy Venkatadri Institute of Technology
Nambur (V)
Peda Kakani (Md)
Guntur (Dt)
Andhra Pradesh
522508
9951 023 336
9849 542 336
Desktop Version