Source: https://www.vvitguntur.com/departments/ai-ml/about-cse-ai-ml

About - CS (AI&ML)
Search
Details
Category:
Department Pages
Department Vision
Providing quality education to enable the generation of socially conscious software engineers who can contribute to the advancement in the field of computer science and engineering.
Department Mission
To equip the graduates with the knowledge and skills required to enable them to be industry ready.
To train socially responsible, disciplined engineers who work with good leadership skills and can contribute for nation building.
To make our graduates proficient in cutting edge technologies through student centric teaching-learning process and empower them to contribute significantly to the software industry
To shape the department into a center of academic and research excellence
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1:
To provide the graduates with
solid foundation
in Computer Science and Engineering along with the fundamentals of Mathematics and Sciences with a view to impart in them
high quality technical skills
like
modelling, analysing, designing, programming and implementation
with
global competence
and helps the graduates for
life-long learning
PEO 2:
To prepare and motivate graduates with
recent technological developments related to core subjects
like Programming, Databases, Design of Compilers and Network Security aspects and future technologies so as to contribute effectively for Research & Development by participating in professional activities like publishing and seeking copy rights.
PEO 3:
To train graduates to choose a
decent career option either in high degree of employability/Entrepreneur or, in higher education
by empowering students with ethical administrative acumen, ability to handle critical situations and training to excel in competitive examinations.
PEO 4:
To train the graduates to have basic
interpersonal skills
sense of social responsibility
that paves them a way to become good team members and leaders.
Program Outcomes (POs)
PO1: Engineering knowledge:
Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
PO2: Problem analysis:
Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
PO3: Design/development of solutions:
Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
PO4: Conduct investigations of complex problems:
Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
PO5: Modern tool usage:
Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
PO6: The engineer and society:
Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
PO7: Environment and sustainability:
Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
PO8: Ethics:
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
PO9: Individual and team work:
Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
PO10: Communication:
Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
PO11: Project management and finance:
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
PO12: Life-long learning:
Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
PSO-1: Professional Skills:
The ability to understand, analyze and develop computer programs in the areas related to algorithms, system software, multimedia, web design, big data analytics, and networking for efficient design of computer-based systems of varying complexity.
PSO-2: Successful Career and Entrepreneurship:
The ability to employ modern computer languages, environments, and platforms in creating innovative career paths to be an entrepreneur and a zest for higher studies/employability in the field of Computer Science & Engineering.
Route
Address
and Phone
Vasireddy Venkatadri Institute of Technology
Nambur (V)
Peda Kakani (Md)
Guntur (Dt)
Andhra Pradesh
522508
9951 023 336
9849 542 336
Desktop Version