Source: https://www.vvitguntur.com/about/strengths

Social Educational Trust
Search
Achievements
Year
2007
Establishment of VVIT with four UG programmes (EEE, ECE, CSE & IT) in Engineering with an intake of 240 students and affiliation from JNTU Hyderabad and Approval from AICTE.
2008
Introducing MCA programme with an intake of 60 students and increase of intake in B. Tech CSE programme from 60 to 90.
Transfer of Affiliation from JNTU Hyderabad to JNTUK, Kakinada
MoU with Aptech for placement training.
2009
Increase of intake from 90 to 120 and 60 to 120 in B. Tech CSE and ECE programmes respectively.
Quality policy implementation and ISO 9001: 2009 certification.
2010
Starting of B. Tech degree course in Civil Engineering with an intake of 60 students.
30 Mbps leased line with fiber optic back bone network facility provided to all Departments and Laboratories
MoU with Infosys – Campus Connect
2011
Starting of B. Tech course in Mechanical Engineering with an intake of 60 students
Starting of P.G courses in M. Tech EEE- (VLSI & Embedded Systems) and M. Tech CSE (Shifts 1 and 2) with a total intake of 18 students each.
2012
Increase of intake from 60 to 120 in B. Tech EEE and ME programmes.
Starting of P.G courses in M. Tech EEE (PE&ED)   and M. Tech ECE (DE & CS)(Shift-2) with an intake of 18 students each.
2013
Increase of intake from 120 to 180 in B. Tech ECE and CSE programmes.
2014
Increase of intake from 60 to 120 and 180 to 240 for B.Tech CE and CSE programmes.
Starting of P.G courses in M. Tech CE (Structural Engineering) and M. Tech ME (Machine Design) with an intake of 18 students each.
Training and Placement Partnership with Co Cubes
Training and Placement Partnership with Monster
MoU with Social Agro Industries
Nodal Centre of Andhra Pradesh State Skills Development Centre (APSSDC)
Roof Top Grid Tied Solar Power Plant with 100 KVA output
2015
Entrepreneurship Development Cell (EDC) Boot camp.
Technical Entrepreneurship Program of Indian School of Business, Hyderabad.
100 mbps Internet backbone
Campus Wi-fi connectivity
Construction of New Academic block with a plinth area of 14000 sqmts to house CoE, APSSDC, Labs and  departments
2016
Recruitment and Internship MoU with Efftronics
Permanent Affiliation to JNTUK
Accredited with A grade by NAAC for Five years
Establishment of 15 state-of-the-art labs of Siemens Centre of Excellence through APSSDC, Govt of AP
ECE and IT programmes are accredited by NBA for Three years
MoUs with Industry for placement training, internships and knowledge transfer.
2017
Sanction of DST projects and FDPs worth INR 1 crore
Increase of intake from 60 to 180 in B.Tech IT programme
MoU to setup Google Code labs with Google Inc., USA through APSSDC, Govt of AP.
MoU to setup Google Code Lab with Google Inc., USA through APSSDC. Recognised Research Centre in ECE dept by JNTUK.
2018
B.Tech - EEE, CSE and ME programmes are accredited by NBA for 3 years.
Sanction of 60 Lakhs by DST under FIST project.
Increase of intake from 120 to 180 in B.Tech EEE & Mechanical programmes.
Sanction of CM's Skill Development Centre by APSSDC.
Agreement to setup AI/Deep Learning Lab through Bennett University by APSSDC.
Sanction of $2 Lakhs (1.3 Crores) to setup Google Code Lab by Google Inc., USA through APSSDC.
Sanction of B.Voc (Production Technology) -- 50 seats and B.Voc (Software Development) -- 50 seats by AICTE, NBA accredition of EEE, ME and CSE branches.
2019
VVIT becomes an Autonomous institution.
2020
AICTE has sanctioned four New B. Tech Programmes in emerging areasAI&DS (AID)-60, CSE -AI&ML (CSM)- 60, CSE-IOT (CSO)-60, CSE-IOT&CS including BT (CIC)-60.
Top rated Private Engineering College by Times Engineering Rankings 2020.
Ranked among the top 25 institutes in the Country by ARIIA Ranking 2020.
AI/Deep Learning program by NVIDIA - GTC from 2020 Received Jetson Nano Kits worth Rs. 1,18,976/- from NVIDIA.
2021
AICTE/MOE Initiatives : PARAKH (SLA), KAPILA (Kalam Program for IP Literacy and Awareness), YUKTI – National Innovation Repository (NIR), SMART INDIA HACKATHON, E-learning Repository, STARTUP POLICY and  ATAL SCHOOLS are established through IIC from 2021.
Accreditation by NAAC with Grade `A` is extended up to 2024.
5 Research Centres in ECE, CSE, EEE, MEC, and CIV are by Recognised JNTUK from AY 2021-22.
Secured Excellent Band in 2021 by ARIIA
Student Internships through AICTE portal from 2021
The following  initiatives/
Programmes
of UGC and AICTE are implemented from 2021-22
NEP 2020 (National Education Policy)
Alumni Connect Cell
NEP SAARATHI (Student Ambassador for Academic
P2BL (Problem and Project Based Learning)
Reforms in Transforming Higher Education in India)
Leadership Development
Academic Bank of Credits
Faculty Development Program (FDP)
SWAYAM / NPTEL and MOOCS
TLC (Teaching Learning Center)  and Sustainability development etc.
2022
Infosys Academy Partner from 2022 - 23.
Community Service project as a part of NEP20 is initiated as per guidelines given by APSCHE govt of AP from 2022
ISB Skilling Program through APSSDC govt of AP is initiated from 2022 for Digital Literacy, Business Literacy, Behavior skills, Entrepreneurship
Student Internships through APSSDC LMS portal from 2022
2023
RWTH Aachen University, Germany enter into an MoU for enhancing international cooperation in academic and  employment from the year 2023-24.
SGIT, Steinbeis University, Germany enter into an MoU for employment linked master’s programs to Germany  from the year 2023-24
Purdue University, Indiana, USA has appreciated the Community Service projects of VVIT students and has initiated the MoU process under EPICS, a service-learning design program from 2023-24.
SWOT Analysis
STRENGTHS:
Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ grade.
B.Tech ECE, CSE, EEE, ME & IT programs are accredited by NBA.
Permanent affiliation to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada.
An ISO 9001:2009 certification.
VVIT is among the two private engineering colleges out of 300 engineering colleges in the state selected by AP State Government to host Siemen’s Center of Excellence. Under this Center of Excellence CNC India Ltd. Bangaluru sets up ROBOTICS lab, LAKSHMI MACHINES WORKS, Coimbatore sets up CNC Lab, METAFAB Engineers (I) Pvt. Ltd sets up Automotive body repair and paint Lab, BEACON LIFTS Ltd sets up Lift installation and maintenance Lab and DESIGN TECH systems Ltd, Pune sets up the remaining labs.
Established Skill Development Center of AP State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC, Hyderabad) to impart skills to enhance employability of the students and unemployed youth in the region.
The first College in the region to have installed a roof top solar power plant of 100 KW with an aim of producing green power.
Conducting ‘TEP’ (Technology Entrepreneurship Program) of Indian School of Business (ISB) through Entrepreneurship Development Cell at the campus.
Conducting ‘iSpark program’ by INFOSYS Technologies – more than 300 students per year visit Infosys Hyderabad campus to understand the real world industry expectations.
Our students achieved many awards and prizes in National Level Technical contests conducted by various premier institutions like IITM, VIT, JNTUK and other Universities.
Developed 54 Mobile apps with innovative ideas through APSSDC.
Industrial MOU with Infosys Campus Connect.
MOU with Kalpah Innovations, Visakhapatnam to collaborate on Medical Imaging.
MOU with Robotics Core School to offer Advanced Embedded courses on campus.
MOU with Social Agro Industries to collaborate on Electronic Automation.
MOU with Quality People, Vijayawada to develop software products.
MOU with IUCEE (Indo Universal Collaboration for Engineering Education) for knowledge upgradation.
Training MOUs with Cocubes, Monster, Seventh Sense, Ikya Global, Talents Show and Oompfh.
WEAKNESSES:
Students, being from rural area, are striving to meet national and global standards in technical education and facing language barriers.
Institute has to upgrade their teaching community for more funded projects; quality research and development; and patents and consultancy.
OPPORTUNITIES:
Institute is continuously organizing various development programs for the benefit of teachers and students through seminars, workshops, conferences, symposiums and other student meets.
Ever increasing demand for technical education at UG & PG level of Engineering & Technology.
Many more opportunities for tie-ups with both established and start-up companies in India and abroad for enhancing learning outcomes.
THREATS:
Institute has competition from other technical universities.
Fast changing world with cutting edge technologies.
Strategic Goals
Short Term Goals
To make the institute as an autonomous institute.
To get all programmes accredited by NBA.
To introduce new need based programmes at U.G and P.G level.
To strengthen the curriculum.
To incorporate more number of electives in the curriculum.
To establish R&D Centres in all departments.
To establish technology business incubation centre.
To encourage innovations and self-employment through Entrepreneurship Development Cell.
To improve industry-institute interaction with the collaboration of at least three industries per department.
To focus more on training and placements.
To accelerate faculty development programmes.
To strengthen counseling.
To improve transparency level.
To make feedback system more effective.
To conduct training programmes for supporting technical staff.
To provide more community services in adopted villages.
To accelerate objective oriented NSS programmes in nearby slum areas.
To constantly up-grade content to bridge gaps between learning outcomes and employability.
To support weak students, focusing on ensuring equity among all categories of students.
To offer value-addition courses beyond the curriculum during off hours for students and local community.
Long Term Goals
To undertake national and international Research and Development works in all the disciplines and to emerge as centers of excellence.
To encourage sponsored and collaborative research with industries, tailor-made training for working professionals, testing and calibration services etc.
To ensure that all the faculty members possess Ph.D degrees.
To enter into more number of MOUs with International and National organizations.
To make this Institute as one of the best learning centres.
Route
Address
and Phone
Vasireddy Venkatadri Institute of Technology
Nambur (V)
Peda Kakani (Md)
Guntur (Dt)
Andhra Pradesh
522508
9951 023 336
9849 542 336
Desktop Version