Source: https://www.vvitguntur.com/about/social-educational-trust

Social Educational Trust
Search
Social Education Trust (Regd. No. 214/2006) was founded in 2006 under the Indian Trust Act by Er. Vasireddy Vidya Sagar, a noted educationist, philanthropist and doyen of computer education in Guntur.
The chief objective of the Trust is to set up and develop educational infrastructure that offers quality education at primary, secondary, higher and tertiary levels that confirms to global standards by establishing colleges, schools, and professional educational institutions without profit motive.
The Trust aims at initiating and promoting educational activities related to career and employment development like vocational training, skill based training, preparation for entrance, screening or competitive tests for both public and private services conducted by state, national and international agencies.
The Trust also aims to promote and foster education among socially backward and economically poor strata of the society by conferring scholarship to poor and deserving students in the form of financial grants to pay their tuition fees and other educational expenses.
To realize the above objectives, as a first step, the Social Education Trust instituted Vasireddy Venkatadri Institute of Technology in 2007 with an intake of 240 students and 40 teaching and non teaching staff in a 12 acre campus amid lush green fields in a completely rural environment in Nambur village in Guntur district. By 2021, the number of students studying at the college has risen to 6000 and the Trust has already created employment directly to over 500 and indirectly to more than 1000 persons. To cater to the rising educational demands of the New Capital Region the Trust proposes to establish a school with International standards offering best quality education complete with comprehensive personality development in the region.
Trust Board:
Sri. Vasireddy Vidya Sagar
Managing Trustee
Smt. Vasireddy Aruna Priya
Trustee
Sri. Vasireddy Mahadev
Sri. Vasireddy Mahavir
Sri. Vasireddy Vijay Kumar
Route
Address
and Phone
Vasireddy Venkatadri Institute of Technology
Nambur (V)
Peda Kakani (Md)
Guntur (Dt)
Andhra Pradesh
522508
9951 023 336
9849 542 336
Desktop Version