DEPARTEMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING (NBA ACCREDITED)

INTRODUCTION
In past years, civil engineers focused on design and construction of new facilities, such as buildings, bridges and highways, water treatment and environmental facilities, foundations and tunnels. Today's civil engineer not only has to design new facilities but must also analyze the effects of deterioration on infrastructure elements, consider system interdependencies and evaluate life-cycle impacts while also considering environmental and economic sustainability within the context of society. Civil engineers must be equipped with in-depth knowledge of traditional, fundamental principals and new technologies in order to address the complex, interdisciplinary problems faced within society. The undergraduate program at VVIT gives the students the necessary background to success within this new context and to become the future leaders of the profession. 

 

HOD PROFILE
Dr. Sreedhar Babu Talluru, M.Tech., Ph.D. is currently engaged in teaching and research at Graduate and Postgraduate levels in Civil Engineering having put in more than 26 years of service to-date. He was awarded Ph.D. by Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, for his work on “Structural Behaviour of Laminated Composite Shells Using a Higher Order Theory”. He has successfully completed his Post-graduation at University of Roorkee. He is currently working as Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at VVIT, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh. He participated in a number of seminars at National and International level and published technical papers in the area of Structural Engineering in referred journals. He attended advanced faculty development programmes organized by various National Level Institutes. He is Life Member of Indian Society for Technical Education, Indian Society for Earthquake Technology and Indian Geotechnical Society. He is fellow member of Institute of Engineers.

He is one of the resource faculty for Earthquake Risk Management under National Programme on Capacity Building of Engineers on Earthquake Risk Management of Govt.of India and delivered special lectures on Earthquake Resistant Designs on several occasions.

Worked in various capacities for about 18 years in RVR&JC College of Engineering. Worked as Principal in Chalapathi Institute Of Technology during 2008-11. Joined as Professor and HOD, Civil Engineering, in VVIT, Guntur in 2011.
Civil Faculty
Dr. T. Sreedhar Babu, Ph.D, Professor & HOD
Dr. N. Kumara Swamy, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. R. Ratna Prasad, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. Farooq Ahmed Syed, Ph.D, Associate Professor
Sri. T. Venkateswara Rao, M.Tech, Associate Professor
Sri. A. Srikanth, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Sri. Ch. Sukesh, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. S. Badari Prasad, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. K. Sai Ramya, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Sri. Y. V. Subba Reddy, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Sri. D. Aditya Sai Ram, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. K. Adithya Nandini, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. K.S. Vivek, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. A. Prasad, B.Sc, M.Sc(Geologist), Asst. Professor
Ms. K. Krishnaveni, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. Sk. Noor Ibrahim, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Ms. Ch. Lakshmi Anuhya, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Sri. D. Jaya Krishna, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. Mirza Mahaboob Baig, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. Y. Pavan Sai Durga Reddy, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. Leela Suresh Ghanta, M.Tech, Asst. Professor