About CSE Department
Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been successfully functioning since 2007. It offers B.Tech (Computer Science and Engineering) and M.Tech (Computer Science and Engineering). The initial intake for B.Tech CSE was 60 in 2007 and now it has grown up to an intake of 480 in 2024. It also offers M.Tech CSE with an intake of 18. Department also has B.Tech CSE for working Professionals with an intake of 30. Department is offering Minor in CSE also for the aspiring non-computer science branch students. Department has been conferred by JNTUK with University sponsored Research Centre for Computer Science and Engineering budding researchers. UG program of CSE department has been accredited by NBA up to Jun 2026 under Tier-I
Department of CSE actively involved in interaction with leading technology domain Training & Development Industries. Department of CSE under VVIT, signed pacts in the form of MoUs with Google Code Labs, Infosys (Campus Connect), Microsoft (Campus Agreement), TechMahindra, SphereMe, InetSolv, Infosys-Spring Board, Solete, Virtusa and V-Technologies etc. It organizes Symposia, Exhibitions, Conferences, Seminars and Workshops for both students and faculty belonging to various Institutions & Research Centers across the Telugu states often.

The Department comprises of 5 fully Air Conditioned Computer Centers with 296 systems, state of the art computing facilities with sufficient power supply backup. Department hosts an Industry Sponsored Embedded AI/DL Lab, for aspiring students and faculty across the institute, for practicing their models on accelerated computing IoT kits. Many of the faculty Our students are placed in various top MNCs like Infosys, IBM, Tech Mahindra, Accenture, Mind Tree, Samsung R&D, Amazon, DBS, EPAM, PhonePay, BNY Melon etc., for deserving & esteemed packages ranging from 2.4 Lakhs to 28 Lakhs per Annum.

The Department of CSE takes care of Software & Hardware requirements of the entire Institute. The strength of the CSE Department is its Alumni, which adds a good amount of perception rating to the institute and department by being most illustrious. Department is committed to encourage students/researchers to carry out innovative research in the field of Computer Science & Engineering, keeping excellence in focus and deliver quality services to match the needs of the technical education system, industry and society. Department of CSE, INF and its allied are harboring ACM General and ACM Women chapters in the institute, to inculcate professionalism in students via weekly thick activities.

Students of CSE department are motivated to be innovative in their thinking while being strong in the Computer Science Core Knowledge. The department of CSE in specific and VVIT in general is committed to the all-round development of its students. In this regard, Google Developer Club, CISCO and UIPath campus student bodies are established which are led by certified campus student ambassadors. Faculty of CSE are always dedicated and devoted towards the comprehensive development of their students by training them physically through enough sports & games; psychologically through technical competitions globally. The department of CSE as a whole aim at the development of Ace Computer Science Engineering Professionals with ethical values & civic sense.
FACULTY LIST
Dr. V. Ramachandran, M.Tech, Ph.D, Professor & HoD
Dr. P. Nageswara Rao, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. P. Sudhakar, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. G. Sanjay Gandhi, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. N. Lakshmi Prasanna, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. P E S N Krishna Prasad, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. N. Koteswaramma, M.Phil, M.Tech, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. N. Sri Hari, M.Tech, Ph.D, Associate Professor
Dr. P. Srinivasa Rao, M.Tech, Ph.D, Assoc. Professor
Sri. M. Sree Krishna, M.Tech (Ph.D), Associate Professor
Mr. P. R. Krishna Prasad, M.Tech (Ph.D), Associate Professor
Mr. K. Mohan Krishna, M.Tech (Ph.D), Associate Professor
Mr. P. Siva Prasad, M.Tech, (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Mr. A. Vishnu Vardhan, M.Tech (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Mr. T. S. Chakravarthy, M.Tech, (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Ms. L. Jyothsna, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. K. Sudheer Kumar, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. K.Rajesh, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. Ch. Hari Prasad, M.Tech, (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Mr. V. Koteswara Rao, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. Ch. Vijayananda Ratnam, M.Tech (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Ms. G. Rama Devi, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. M. S. N. D Sowjanya, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. M. Jeevan Babu, M.Tech, (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Mr. China Pentu Saheb, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Sri. N. Praveen Kumar, M.Sc, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. Syed Seema Anjum, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Ms.Desam Vamsi, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. S. Narendra, M.Tech, (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Ms. Sk. Fathimunnisa ,M.Tech ,Assistant Professor
Mrs. Ramya Asalatha, M.Tech, (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Mr. N.D.V. Siva Sankar ,M.Tech ,Assistant Professor
Mr. D. Murali Krishna Reddy, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. M. Kishore Babu, M.Tech (Ph.D), Asst. Professor
Mr. Ch. Raghavendra, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. Ch. Amaresh, M.Tech (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Ms. V Tejaswi, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. G. Rajesh Kumar, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. V. John Wesley, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. Y Yuktarasi, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. Vijaya Lakshmi, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. T. Rajasekhar, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. Gnana Vardhan Madasu, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. T Bhanu Prakash, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mrs. L Lakshmi Anusha, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
