DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
(NBA ACCREDITED)
Introduction 

The department of Information Technology (IT) has been successfully functioning since 2007. It offers B.Tech (Information Technology) Programme with an intake of 180 students. The Department of IT is one of the progressive branches of VVIT that has grown its intake from 60 to 180 in the academic year 2017-18, for the B.Tech Programme, proving its potential among all other Institutions in AP capital region. In 2016, the department is provisionally accredited by NBA.

The institute in general and Department of IT in particular has uncompromising discipline and flawless execution of academic policies, which makes the Teaching-Learning environment conducive for all types of students to fulfil their dreams.

Department of IT has good interactions and MOUs with leading technology domain Training & Development Industries. Department of IT under VVIT has several agreements in the form of MoUs with Google Code Labs, Infosys (Campus Connect), Microsoft (Campus Agreement), Tech Mahindra, SphereMe, and InetSolv & Vee-Technologies. It organizes Symposia, Exhibitions, Conferences, Seminars and Workshops for both Students and Faculty belonging to various Technical Educational Institutions, Research Scholars of Research Institutes and Industries all over India.

Students of IT Department are placed in various top MNCs like Infosys, IBM, Tech Mahindra, Accenture, Mind Tree, Samsung R&D, EPAM, Deutsche Bank of Singapore etc., for deserving & esteemed packages of more than 2.4 Lac to 9.5 Lac per annum. The IT department has significant role in training students of entire Institute to secure the jobs in software field.

The Department comprises 2 fully Air-Conditioned Computer Centres with 120 systems, state-of-the-art computing facilities with sufficient power supply backup. The laboratory practical classes are conducted in a systematic manner, where complete plan is given at the time of commencement of the semester .The laboratories are well equipped with modern training facilities that cater to the requirements of the university syllabus.

Department is committed to encourage students to carry out innovative research in the field of Information Technology, keeping excellence in focus and deliver quality services to match the needs of the technical education system, industry and society as per its Programme Educational Objectives.

Faculty of IT are always dedicated and devoted towards the comprehensive development of their students by encouraging them physically through enough sports & games; psychologically through co and extracurricular activities globally. The IT Department has well qualified and optimally qualified supporting staff for the smooth interface among students, Faculty and Parents.

The Department of IT takes care of Software & Hardware requirements of the entire Institute. The strength of the IT Department is its Alumni, which adds a good amount of perception rating to the department by being most illustrious.



About Head of the Department

it hod

 

Dr. Kalavathi A is the Professor and Head of the Information Technology Department. She obtained PhD in Computer Science & Engineering from Acharya Nagarjuna University, Nambur in the year 2013. She received M.Tech in Computer Science & Engineering from Acharya Nagarjuna University.

She has a chequered teaching experience of 18 years and worked in various prestigious Institutions in Andhra Pradesh. She received Women Scientist Scholarship from Department of Science and Technology under the Government of India. Her research was published as Patent by International Patents Organization (IPO). She has published many National and International Journals and Conferences across several Countries and also a reviewer of several top-tier academic journals. She is working as NAAC and IQAC coordinator of the College.

Dr Kalavathi has strong zeal towards Professional Activities and member in many Professional Societies like ACM & CSI. Her research interests include Information Security, Network Security and Computer Networks. She has organized many National Conferences, Faculty Development Programmes and Training Programs.

Prof Kalavathi being compassionate towards the girl students takes enough measures in order to nullify grievances if any.

She has received Research Excellence Award by KRDWG at IIT Delhi. She also received Prathibha Puraskar Award for her PhD work at ANU by Urban Bank.

She is a committed individual and an excellent Teacher, who has the efficacy to make the dreams of students come true with a meticulous planning and relentless hard work. She has excellent communication skills and always accessible to the stakeholders.

click here for her complete profile
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FACULTY
Dr. A. Kalavathi, M.Tech, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. B. Sai Jyothi, M.Tech, Ph.D., Professor
Dr. Konduru Kranthi Kumar, M.Tech, Ph.D, Professor
Dr. R. Sudha Kishore, M.Tech, Ph.D, Professor
Sri. M. D. Shakeel Ahmed, M.Tech (Ph.D), Associate Professor
Mr. N. Ashok, M.Tech, (Ph.D), Assistant Professor
Smt. Sk. Mulla Almas, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Dr. P. Naga Babu, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mrs. K. Thrilocana Devi, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. Buradagunta Avinash, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. Y. Venkata Narayana, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Ms. G. Shireesha, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. Jeevan Ratnakar Kondra, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. Ram Bhupal, Assistant Professor, M.Tech, (Ph.D)
Mr. Nanduri Ashok, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. Kommuri Rajendra, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Ms. G. Priyadarshini, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. O. T. Gopi Krishna, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. A V Sudhakara Rao Ande, M.Tech, (Ph.D), Asst. Professor
Mr. B. Rajesh, M.Tech, (Ph.D) Asst. Professor
Ms. Yakkaluri Madhuri, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mr. Ch. Vinod, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. A. B. Naga Harshini, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Mrs. S H Maha Lakshmi, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. K. Annapurna, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. Hepsiba, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. Jetty Sudeepthi, M.Tech, Asst. Professor
Mr. B. Naga Raju, M.Tech, Assistant Professor
Ms. D. Naga Vardhini, M.Tech, Assistant Professor